IPv4: Internet Protocol version 4. 32-bit address protocol responsible for the nework
layer.

IPv6: Internet Protocol version 6. 128-bit address protocol, succesor of the IPv4.

TCP: Transmission Control Protocol. Connection oriented protocol that provides
reliability and a full duplex byte stream to its users with no boundaries.

UDP: User Datagram Protocol. Connectionless protocol where packets are datagrams with
boundaries. It's unreliable because it doesn't guarantee that packets arrive to their
destination.

STCP: Stream Control Protocol. Connection oriented protocol that provides reliability
and a full duplex association. With association we mean that a STCP socket we can
address multiple IP's with the same host, also called as multihoming. Another difference
with TCP is that packets have boundaries. It can use IPv4, IPv6 or both.

ICMP: Internet Control Message Protocol. This protocol handles error and control
information between routers and hosts. It is generated and processed by TCP, is not
meant to be used by users, it is a inter-protcol.

IGMP: Internet Group Message Protocol. Used with multicasting.

ICMPv6: Internet Control Message Protocol. Combines the functions of ICMPv4, IGMP and ARP.

ARP: Address Resolution Protocol. ARP maps IPv4 address into a hardware address MAC.
It's normally used in broadcasting.

RARP: Reverse Address Resolution Protocol. Maps MAC into IPv4.

BPF: BSD Packer filter. Interface that provides access to the datalink layer.

DLPI: Datalink Provider Interface. Interface that provides access to the datalink layer.

[TRANSMISION CONTROL PROTOCOL]

TCP is said to be reliable, not because every segment has a 100% guarantee that it will
arrive. But because in case it didn't, the protocol will notify the sender that the
segment didn't get. TCP uses a mechanism called acknoledgment to notify the sender every
time a message did arrive. If an acknoledgment isn't send by the receiver, TCP will
retransmit the segment for given amount of time until an acknoledgment is received. The
time the protocol decides to wait is dynamic and is called Rounnd-Trip Time (RTT).

TCP provides control flow. This means the protcol can tell his peer how many bytes of
data its willing to receive. This is called window. A window is a buffer that the
receiver manages and can be increase or decrease according to the amount of data
received. To avoid overflows of the window buffer, once the space its over the protocol
will notify the sender to stop sending information until the buffer is read by the
application. Once the window is free the sender will transmit more segments.

The tree-way handshake:

1. The server starts listening by following the Socket, Bind, Listen pattern. This is
called a passive connection.

2. The client initiates an active connection by sending a SYN message (without data) to
request a connection. The server responds with a SYN-ACK message, acknowledging the SYN
and providing its own SYN.

3. The client completes the handshake by sending an ACK message back to the server.

Summary:

Client -> Server: Sends SYN.
Server -> Client: Sends ACK-SYN.
Client -> Server: Sends ACK.

TCP options:

MSS: Maximum Segment Size. The maximum amount of data that the receiver is willing to
accept in each TCP segment. The sender uses the MSS receive by its peer to know how
much data he can send. In code we can set the MSS with TCP_MAXSEG.

WSO: Window Scale Option. the maximum window that either TCP can advertise to the other
TCP is 65,535, because the field occupies 16 bits. However speed has increased so the 
window must be bigger, hence programmers add a field to specied how many bit must be
shifted the left to power the size of the buffer (window). 65,535 ^ 10 = 65,535 * 1024 =
67,108,864. We can set the WSO when configuring the socket with option SO_RCVBUF.

Timestamp option: This is used in high-speed connections to prevent data corruption
caused by old, delayed and duplicated segments.

THE LAST TWO OPTIONS ARE NEW AND ARE PART OF THE RFC 1323. In case one those isn't
implemented in the current machine they are just ignored.

The TCP termination:

1. One application calls the Close function and it sends FIN message.

2. The receiver ACK the FIN message and informs the aplication with an EOF. 

3. After reading the remain data and handle the EOF, the aplication calls Close and sends
a FIN.

4. Finally the system that initiated the termination process receives the FIN,
acknoledge it and terminates de connection.

Summary:

Client -> Server = sends FIN
Server -> Client = sends ACK
Server -> Client = sends the remaining data if remaining (half close)
Server -> Client = sends FIN
Client -> Server = sends ACK

The TCP states:

1. CLOSED
2. LISTEN
3. SYN_SENT
4. SYN_RCVD
5. ESTABLISHED
6. CLOSE_WAIT
7. LAST_ACK
8. FIN_WAIT_1
9. FIN_WAIT_2
10. TIME_WAIT (2MSL -> 2 times Maximum Segment Life)
11. CLOSING
